# Walmart-sales-analysis
### Objective
The objective of the project is to  explore the Walmart Sales data to understand top performing branches and products, sales trend of of different products, customer behaviour. The aims is to study how sales strategies can be improved and optimized.  
The major aim of thie project is to gain insight into the sales data of Walmart to understand the different factors that affect sales of the different branches.
### Dataset overview
The dataset are provided with historical sales data for 45 Walmart stores located in different regions.This dataset contains sales transactions from a three different branches of Walmart, respectively located in Mandalay, Yangon and Naypyitaw. The data contains 17 columns and 1000 rows

### Analysis List
#### 1.Product Analysis

Conduct analysis on the data to understand the different product lines, the products lines performing best and the product lines that need to be improved.

#### 2.Sales Analysis

This analysis aims to answer the question of the sales trends of product. The result of this can help use measure the effectiveness of each sales strategy the business applies and what modificatoins are needed to gain more sales.

#### 3.Customer Analysis

This analysis aims to uncover the different customers segments, purchase trends and the profitability of each customer segment.

### Approach used

A) Add a new column named time_of_day to give insight of sales in the Morning, Afternoon and Evening. This will help answer the question on which part of the day most sales are made.

B) Add a new column named day_name that contains the extracted days of the week on which the given transaction took place (Mon, Tue, Wed, Thur, Fri). This will help answer the question on which week of the day each branch is busiest.

C) Add a new column named month_name that contains the extracted months of the year on which the given transaction took place (Jan, Feb, Mar). Help determine which month of the year has the most sales and profit.

### Key Takeaways

1) There are 995 rows and 17 columns.
2) The most common payment method are cash(344) Ewallet(342) Credit card(309).
3) The total revenue generated in the month january(116291).
4) The total revenue generated By product is Food and Beverages(56144).
5) There 3 city Naypyitaw,Yangon and Mandalay so the largest revenue generated in the city Naypyitaw(110490).
